The governing body has asked me to use Proverbs 3.9 as the theme for the message they would like to be shared with the entire household of faith this month.
Let's read that text together.
Proverbs chapter 3 verse 9, and after we read it, we want to consider what are your valuable things.
And what does the verse mean by giving the first fruits?
Let's read Proverbs chapter 3 verse 9.
Honor Jehovah with your valuable things, with the first fruits of all your produce.
Let's first talk a little bit about what it means to offer our first fruits.
In Bible times, it meant the earliest fruits of a season.
So way before an Israelite knew what kind of a harvest he would have, whether it would be a bumper crop, or very meager returns, with full faith and confidence, he was to give the first fruits to Jehovah, not just leftovers at the end of the harvest season.
Furthermore, the Hebrew word for first fruit is in the sense of being the best of that early season.
So the idea conveyed is not only first chronologically, but also first in quality.
In fact, Exodus 2319 says this.
It says, you are to bring the best of the first ripe fruits of your ground to the house of Jehovah, your God.
The best of the first fruits would truly honor Jehovah.
And the Greek term for first fruits comes from a root word having the basic meaning of primacy or pre-eminence.
Again, the idea, the best we have.
Proverbs 39 also indicated that we can honor our show respect and appreciation for Jehovah with our valuable things.
And as stated at Revelation 411, Jehovah is truly worthy of all the honor we can give him.
Not only do we owe it to him because he is our creator, he is worthy of it because of the kind of God he is.
But what are the valuable things with which we can honor Jehovah?
What first might come to mind are our material possessions, our finances.
Well, that is true. And we want to talk about this a little bit later.
But there are many other valuables that a Christian can offer to Jehovah to give him the honor that he is worthy of.
For example, our time, Mr. Benjamin Franklin, a scientist and statesman once said,
Do not squander time for that as the stuff life is made of.
Yes, time is a valuable resource.
And many of you dear ones are offering your valuable time in the ministry each month.
Some of you are able to give to Jehovah 70 or more hours a month in the ministry as regular pioneers.
While others of us are not in a position to spend that amount of time in the field ministry, we rejoice with those who can.
And interestingly, under the law given to Moses, the quantity of first fruits to be offered was not fixed.
It was left to the generosity and circumstances of the giver.
He was to give his best though, no matter how much or how little that proved to be.
No matter what the amount then, can we give the first fruits of our time in the ministry?
We do this by scheduling some time early in the month, not just leftovers, the last few days of the month.
Remember, we give Jehovah our first fruits.
What other valuable things do we possess that we can give to Jehovah thus honoring him?
Well, many have construction skills and other talents that they are willing to offer for the building of kingdom halls, assembly halls, remote translation offices,
and branch facilities, including the large world headquarters complex in Warwick, New York.
Jehovah is magnified by such voluntary contributions of energy and skills.
These are truly valuable things.
And now, I would like to address the valuable things that may have first come to mind, material possessions, or financial giving and support.
As you know, for over 130 years, this organization has never solicited for funds, and it is certainly not going to start now.
We don't send out monthly statements to each of Jehovah's Witnesses specifying a dollar amount that should be submitted to finance the work worldwide.
Most donations, in fact, are contributed anonymously.
Over the years, I have told various Bible students that a person could attend our meetings for 20 years and never put a penny in the contribution box.
And we would not know it. Jehovah, of course, would know it, but we would not, because the donations are anonymous, but from the heart.
We don't know who gives what, but for a certainty, any donations received do not line anyone's pockets and are not misappropriated.
They are all used in supporting theocratic endeavors worldwide.
As described in Matthew 24, 45 through 47, the governing body prayerfully and sincerely endeavors to be not only the faithful slave, but also the discrete slave in wisely managing the master's resources.
And please, dear brothers and sisters, pray for Jehovah to help us to be successful in being not only faithful, but also discrete.
But often a member of the governing body will be heard to say, in spending Jehovah's money, we have to be more careful than we are in spending our own money.
And that is truly how we feel about the matter.
Yet, as you can well imagine, millions of dollars are required each month to finance the colossal kingdom work that is being supported by this organization in some 239 lands.
What is all of the financial support come from largely from you, dear brothers and sisters?
Most funds come from what you voluntarily put in the contribution box in your kingdom hall.
Yes, that little box with a slot that is labeled worldwide work is primarily what finances all of the theocratic initiatives that have been implemented.
Of course, there are many other ways to contribute as explained usually in the November issue of the watch tower each year.
Sometimes we may feel a little shy to talk about the financial needs of the organization that is understandable because we in no way want to be categorized with other organizations religious and otherwise that coerce their supporters to donate.
However, because all of us have the privilege to donate funds, we would like to let you know something about our current situation.
Then you can respond as your heart impels you. As you might have sensed, I am not shy about this subject and why not?
It is because we have many scriptural examples of Jehovah's faithful servants making known the financial needs of the congregation.
Only when supporters of the kingdom know the needs, can they respond accordingly.
For example, turned with me, please, to Exodus chapter 35.
Now think about this as you're turning there. The Israelites were in Sinai. They were marching through a wilderness.
They did not have fields or businesses with money flowing in. They just had what they had brought with them when leaving Egypt.
Nevertheless, Jehovah instructed them to build a place of worship.
Was Jehovah shy about letting the people know about the material needs? Well, read with me, Exodus 35 verses 4 and 5.
Moses then said to the entire assembly of the Israelites,
This is what Jehovah has commanded. That wasn't Moses' command. This is what Jehovah has commanded.
Take up a contribution for Jehovah from among yourselves. Let everyone with a willing heart bring a contribution for Jehovah.
Gold silver copper. You see, the people would not have known this need if Jehovah had not informed them. Very interesting is it not?
The governing body very much feels the urgency of accomplishing as much as we possibly can in behalf of kingdom interest knowing that the great day of Jehovah is dear.
So in an effort to keep you informed of the support that is needed for this great work, I have the following information to share.
We have looked forward to this next fiscal year and projected the expenditures for all of the theocratic initiatives we are scheduling.
In doing the math, we found that the amount of money flowing out will be much greater than the amount of money that we have coming in at this time.
Well, why is that? Does this represent a lack of appreciation for spiritual things? No, absolutely not.
To the contrary, we are witnessing unprecedented enthusiasm among the brotherhood for all the spiritual bounty that is coming our way.
We have up to date Bibles and an abundance of printed literature. And there's so much appreciation for the new and continually improving JW.org website.
From around the world, we receive letters thanking the governing body for JW broadcasting.
Many comment that it is brought us closer together as a people. And as mentioned, starting this month, JW broadcasting is available in multiple languages.
We are thrilled about this development. There is also excitement about public witnessing using literature cards and with such great success.
No, the financial circumstance has nothing to do with the lack of spirituality or appreciation.
However, there are some facts that we want to make you aware of. For one thing, the financial needs in the field have accelerated at a pace unlike any time in the recent past.
A recent analysis of the need for kingdom halls here in the United States showed that some 1,600 new kingdom halls or major renovations are needed, not some time in the future, but right now.
And worldwide, we are in need of more than 14,000 places of worship, not including ongoing future growth.
In the past 15 years, 30,000 kingdom halls have been built. Now, if you figure that out, that average is about 2,000 kingdom halls every year.
But in an effort to relieve the serious backlog more quickly, we intend, Jova Willing, to complete 3,000 kingdom hall projects every year going forward.
Now, that's a 50% increase. Additionally, adjustments are being made to simplify the kingdom hall design in order to accelerate the construction schedule and to save funds.
Though the design will be simplified, the sheer number of kingdom halls requires considerably more funds in the budget than in times past.
Additionally, please think about this. Today, how many publishing companies print publications in the many languages that Johova's organization does?
The answer? None. And why is that? Is because they cannot make a financial profit?
We, however, are accelerating our method of translating publications into indigenous languages.
This involves building or purchasing regional translation offices or RTOs.
These will be strategically located in a part of a country with the highest concentration of native speakers of the language.
Providing these structures in various regions of a country reduces the need for costly construction expansion at the local branch office.
But in the next two years, however, upwards, now think about this, 170 of such facilities, RTOs are needed.
Depending on the country and the cost of materials, an RTO can cost for about $1 million to several million dollars each.
Hence, we have another reason we need to increase our finances.
We just felt that you, dear brothers and sisters, needed to be made aware of these expenditures that we're facing in the coming months and years.
We also have heard from circuit overseers and others that some of the brothers and sisters may have a misconception about some of the recent policy changes that have been instituted.
For example, all congregations that had a kingdom hall or assembly hall loan to pay off were informed that their mortgages were canceled.
Now, if you think about that, it's amazing, isn't it? All their loans were canceled.
Can you imagine a bank telling homeowners that all their loans were canceled and that they should merely send in to the bank each month whatever they can afford?
Only in Jehovah's organization could such a thing happen.
However, according to some of our circuit overseers, some of us took this to mean that the organization had a surplus of funds and thus took this action as if the loans did not need to be reimbursed.
Could this misconception have affected the amount that some have chosen to donate each month?
In actuality, the mortgages were canceled so as not to be a hardship on some congregations and circuits.
The policy was founded on the scriptural principle stated in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Please turn there with me.
In an effort to help fellow Christians who were facing financial hardship in the first century,
an arrangement had been put in place to accept contributions from others to help offset the deficiency.
About a year later, Paul is again writing to the Corinthians about this policy of contributing to offset the financial needs of others.
Now, please read with me 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and we're going to read verses 10 through 15.
Here, the Apostle Paul, under inspiration, said this, verse 10,
And in this, I give my opinion. This is for your benefit, saying that already a year ago, you're not only initiated the action that is of contributing, but also showed your desire to do it.
So now, also complete what you started to do, so that your readiness to act or contribute may be completed according to, now notice, the means you have available.
For if the readiness is there first, it is especially acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what a person does not have.
For I do not want to make it easy for others, but difficult for you, but that by means of an equalizing, your surplus at the present time by offset their need.
So that their surplus might also offset your deficiency, that there may be an equalizing.
Just as it is written, the person with much did not have too much, and the person with little did not have too little.
So that was the scriptural basis for canceling all loan repayments.
It was not because the organization had a large surplus of funds, and thus could quote afford to cancel these mortgages.
As explained at the time, it was to equalize the reimbursement of such expenditures over the entire brotherhood.
Some businessmen in the secular world might think this was a disastrous policy change.
However, we know the spirit of Jehovah's fateful servants.
We all feel privileged to be able to help the growing brotherhood to have comfortable places to meet and praise Jehovah.
Think about this comparison.
Back in 1990, when the decision was made to distribute our literature free of charge, some within the organization and many outside the organization thought this would be financial suicide.
However, you dear brothers and sisters have proved those predictions completely wrong.
Jesus said, at Matthew 1119, all the same. Wisdom is proved righteous by its works.
Our individual voluntary donations have combined to take care of the costs associated with producing our literature.
And we are confident that the same will prove true regarding the decision to cancel all kingdom hall and assembly hall loans.
So, instead of conveying the message that the organization needed less in the way of donations, the intent was really just the opposite.
But we have confidence that our hearts will be moved to contribute what we can each month to offset the necessary expense of building new meeting places for our brothers worldwide.
Another misimpression that has been brought to our attention is that the sale of property in New York City means that fewer donations are needed.
To help put things in proper perspective, however, selling one of the significant properties in New York really only covered the operating expenses for the worldwide work for a few weeks.
This is one significant property.
And in actuality, the sale of property in New York City is basically only financing the construction of world headquarters in Warwick and the purchase of other properties that are needed to facilitate the move from Brooklyn in the future.
On top of that, as mentioned, we are planning on accelerating the building of kingdom halls and remote translation offices in coming years.
It is our desire, johova willing, to hold to the accelerated schedule for these projects, if at all possible.
However, it is a rather than having to scale back such progress because of a lack of available funds.
Again, we are not in any way desirous of creating a hardship on anyone.
However, we felt that if you knew the circumstances accurately, you would apply Proverbs 327 to the situation.
We are encouraged not to withhold what is good, but then the scripture adds, if it is within our power to help.
And I might mention that this is true even of publishers in less affluent countries.
It is encouraging to note that even in lands with limited resources, the very poor contribute to the cost of their kingdom hall and its maintenance.
We are all johovas united people.
Even if we do not have much materially, if our heart is willing, there is usually something we can do.
Even if it is merely offering two small coins of very little value as the poor widow did.
And how did Jesus feel about her for doing this?
He highly praised her in Mark 1242 through 44.
And if we think about it, a small donation from each of many of johovas people adds up to a large amount of dedicated funds that can be used powerfully by johovas organization.
Please turn back to Exodus chapter 35.
As mentioned, johova was not shy about informing his people of the financial needs for true worship.
But once the need was known, what was the initial result?
Exodus 35, and let's read verse 21 and the first part of verse 22.
Then everyone whose heart impaled him and everyone whose spirit incited him came and brought their contribution for johova to be used for the tent of meeting for all his service and for the holy garments.
They kept coming, the men, along with the women, each with a willing heart.
And what were the final results? Well, look at Exodus chapter 36.
And we're going to read verse 7.
Let's see, did johova have to scale back on the amount of work because of the lack of material support?
Verse 7, the goods were enough for all the work to be done and more than enough.
Yes, when the hearts of johovas people are motivated, wonderful things happen.
The governing body wanted to make you aware of the financial needs in the world field.
And we're confident that with this knowledge, your appreciative hearts will move you to do what you can to support the work at hand.
Yes, we can honor johova with our valuable things, including the financial support of true worship.
But as we mentioned at the outset, our valuable things include much more.
For example, our time as we talked about spending the ministry.
May we all give our individual first fruits the best we can do with our present circumstances.
Some are honoring johova by moving to places where the need for kingdom preachers is greater.
That's commendable.
We spoke of giving our skills and energy to theocratic construction projects.
We appreciate all of you who have honored johova in this way in the past, tirelessly working with regional building committees and in the lands with limited resources program.
And we thank all of you who will continue to support the construction of buildings that will bring praise to johova.
What other valuable things bring honor to johova?
Many thousands are learning new languages to be able to help spread the good news to yet more deserving ones.
Say well, Beat, now think about this.
That this organization has the most multilingual speakers of any organization on earth.
That's amazing, isn't it?
Still others honor johova by expending themselves on hospital liaison committees and patient visitation groups.
If you do so, often behind the scenes with no limelight, be assured that those you help know what you do.
And the sovereign of the universe sees you and receives your gift honorably.
It is just as stated at Hebrew 610, johova does not forget your work.
And the love you showed for his name by ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones.
There are also circuit overseers and Bethel family members around the earth who give their best to johova daily.
Some of you are faithful caregivers of sick or elderly servants of johova.
It is a wear factor that is hard to quantify.
But know that your God accepts such a gift of love with full knowledge of what you have done.
Well, at this point, I will borrow the words of Paul as he enumerated in Hebrews chapter 11, many, many women of faith.
But then said, as recorded in verse 32, and what more will I say?
For time will fail me if I go on to relate about, and then he listed others who had honored johova with their valuable things.
Similarly, time would fail us if we tried to enumerate all of you dear ones and all of them many ways that you are honoring johova with your valuable things.
But may johova continue to bless each and every one of you who are doing so.